so then it is the Sixth and final day of
the Gaza ceasefire agreed between Hamas
and Israel after a two-day extension set
to expire on Thursday talks are underway
to extend the pause and hostilities on
Tuesday Israel released another 30
Palestinians in exchange for 12 captives
that Hamas has been holding in Gaza kter
has been helping to mediate the
negotiations it's hoping for a more
durable agreement the foreign Ministry
said the main focus is to secure an end
to the war intelligence Chiefs from the
US and from Israel are also in Doha uh
they met K's prime minister on Tuesday
to discuss extending the ceasefire and
the release of more
hostages so as we've been saying it's
the last scheduled day uh of the
ceasefire lots of negotiations are
underway uh as to whether or not that
will be extended we'll get more on that
now from uh Imran Khan who's standing by
for us uh right now in occupied East
Jerusalem so Imran tell us more about
the situation there in Israel we have uh
this ceasefire negotiations underway
what's the mood there about the the
potential for it being
extended well certainly all parties are
talking quite positively about uh the
negotiations ongoing uh the
International Community G who is kind of
leading uh the negotiations between
Hamas and Israel the Americans also very
keen that the the ceasefire should uh
continue but what are the deta s of what
are the negotiations going on well
that's obviously being kept very very uh
secret but we do know uh from leaks
coming out uh that there are
negotiations to release additional
captives and extending the ceasefire by
another 5 days now they're doing this
over five categories the the five
categories they're talking about are
releasing uh Israeli captives elderly
men firstly who are too old to be
reservists now the reason they they
bring the word reservist up is because
military AED males and females here have
to do national service so the idea that
once you're too old to do that then
perhaps you can be released a bit more
then it's female soldiers uh reservist
soldiers and then the bodies actually of
Israelis who are killed before or during
a captivity so that seems to be what
they're negotiating on there seems to be
positive noises actually coming from
Hamas about this as well Hamas is
according to the Cy according to leaks
uh
towards the Cates rather has said they
are very keen to respect uh what the
Israelis want in terms of these five
categories but there's a lot of pressure
uh from the rightwing in Israel who
actually control uh the government that
this ceasefire should not go on
indefinitely in fact there is a deadline
that keeps being said and that is the
deadline of Sunday 10 days of a
ceasefire is about all the Israelis May
well be able to stomach if all of these
leaks are to believe to be believed that
happens on Sunday after Sunday if the
ceasefire last that long the Israelis
will want to go back in and we keep
hearing this not just from sources but
actually publicly uh from people like
the Daniel hagari who's the Israeli
armed spokesman saying that we will go
back into Gaza it's not a question of if
it's a question of when Iman thanks for
that Iman we'll leave it there for the
moment that's a scene from occupied East
Jerusalem let's go now to hind kadari
who's in Kan Yunis in the southern Gaza
Strip and and hind tell us how people
are feeling there today as discussions
continue to try and expand these these
days of
quiet well let's start from the north of
the Gaza Strip where we just learned
that there has been uh shooting from the
Israeli forces on two Palestinian
civilians in the northern area of the
Gaza Strip where two Palestinians have
been injured and one of them H is in
serious condition uh moving back to the
South we feel and we we see on the
ground mixed feelings we see fear hope
resilience anger anxiety depression
people uh think uh they are using the
last hours of this extended Seas
temporary ceasefire where they're trying
to buy as much as they can despite the
the fact that they are striving to find
anything in the markets they say and
they say that there is nothing available
no winter clothes no food they're trying
to reach some Aid that is been entering
the Gaza SHP but at the end of the day
they feel that this um after talking to
a couple of people they said that this
um uh temporary ceasefire is meaningless
as long as they were not uh um able to
go back to their houses to make sure
that their family stuck in the northern
area of the Gaza Strip is safe we are
still uh disconnected from the northern
Gaza Strip and it's very hard for us to
reach people in there and it's not only
us as uh uh reporters it's also about
civilians that are striving to get any
news from their their beloved ones uh in
the northern area of the Gazo strip yes
incredibly difficult situation there so
what's the agid you mentioned what's
happening to that Aid who's managing its
distri
indeed how is it being
distributed okay so every single day
since the beginning of this temporary
ceasefire uh 200 trucks of Aid inured
We're talking about a total of 950
approximately 950 Aid uh uh uh trucks
that entered including food medicine
food uh fuel uh cooking gas uh who's
Distributing these uh uh uh Aid is uh
International uh Nos and international
Agencies with local Partners in the Gaza
Strip we noticed that wfp the world food
program was able to enter uh the
northern area of the Gaza Strip we're
also talking about icrc and pcrf uh all
of these International organizations
have been uh facilitating in the Norine
area of the Gaza Strip since uh since
the first day of the season temporary
ceasefire so Aid is coming in the Gaza
Strip but at the end of the day it is
not enough the demand of food water
medicine uh fuel cooking gas is huge is
massive people are striving to find any
of these basic needs uh to continue uh
uh coping with this life the
humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip
is catastrophic and we are seeing this
on the ground every single day despite
that there is a temporary ceasefire but
people still don't have access to clean
water to hygiene uh to electricity to
bathrooms people in this Hospital in
alnaser complex wait for hours in lines
to enter the bathroom and use the
bathroom at the end of the day there is
also no water for washing themselves so
all of these uh hygiene problems uh the
health situation is deteriorating and
we're also talking about thousands of
people displaced in this hospital and
other un facilities with with like they
don't have they don't even have the
minimum basic requirements to continue
and survive uh this Israeli War indeed
sanitation situation getting worse by
the day we'll leave it there hind thanks
for that update hind kdari there in the
south of Gaza